COMSATS UNIVERSITY  ISLAMABAD , ISLAMABAD CAM PUS 
Department of Computer Science  
Assignment  - 1, Spring 2026 
[CLO1]:  Characterize the fundamentals of cloud computing along with its service models  
[CLO 2]: Enumerate virtualization and containerization  techniques used in cloud  computing  
Course: DevOps  for Cloud Computing                                                     Class: BCS -7/ BDS -7/ BAI -6 
Submission Deadline: March  13, 202 6                    Total Marks: 10  
1- [CLO1 , CLO2 ] Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a Public Cloud Platform and is currently the market leader  
based on various survey s conducted recently . It offers around  200 products and services. In this 
assignment, you are going to get the flavor of using Cloud Computing Platform and its various service 
models.  Specifically, you are required to build or reuse any previously built web application and deploy it 
over the Public Cloud , AWS . Since building web applications  is out of the scope of this course,  it can be 
any web application with the following requirement s: 
▪ It has sufficient  functionality ( ≈ 3 FYP level modules) so that a  handsome amount of test cases ( ≈ 
15) can be written in the upcoming assignment  
▪ It uses some Database Server for managing  application’s data.  
You are required to deploy the web application using the following IaaS and PaaS based services offered 
by AWS:  
▪ Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) : An IaaS based service offering the broadest and 
deepest compute platform  
▪ Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) : An IaaS based object storage service  
▪ AWS Elastic Beanstalk : A PaaS based service for easy d eploy ments  of web applications  
▪ Amazon Relational Database  (Amazon RDS ): A PaaS based service that allows the creation, 
operation, management, and scaling of the relational database in the cloud  
Upon completion of this assignment , you will be able to:  
▪ Characterize and understand the service models  
▪ Understand and c onfigure servers and applications using virtuali zed infrastructure  
▪ Configure and deploy application using  Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) model  in the cloud  
▪ Setup  and deploy application using Platform as a Service (PaaS) model in the cloud  
Part-I 
In the first part, you will deploy the application using IaaS model and will use EC2 for it.  Roughly, the 
following  steps would be needed for the deployment:   
▪ Create an Ubuntu based virtual machine, an EC2 instance  
▪ Add security rules to EC2 instance allowing various accesses (e.g., SSH, HTTP  etc.)  
▪ Generate keys pair and use an SSH client to access the EC2 instance . 
▪ Use package manager to install the required s ervers  along with their dependencies  and start them  
▪ Configure the permissions  
▪ Set up  the Schema and u pload your application code , and finally, make your web application  up 
and running   
 
 
 
Part-II 
In the second part, you will deploy the application using PaaS model and will use S3 to store the application 
code and Elastic Beanstalk  to easily setup the environment for your application . If your application uses a 
Relational Database, you may also need to set up  an RDS instance.  
What to submit  
This is an individual assignment. Please fill out the following Google form to provide URLs for both the 
Parts:  
https://forms.gle/jCj9sQxybnURKA3S7  
 
      Here’s the link of the response sheet for the above google form to view your responses:  
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1yRFY3ap1MvT9iA9TSxmI1iwdtobUm1eSb24TGQEbTwM/edit
?usp=sharing  
You are also required  to submit a well formatted  report describing your application , documen ting all the 
micro steps  along with the screenshots, and listing URLs  for both the parts that can be  used to access 
your deployed web application . The report should serve as a manual for someone who wants to deploy 
the application using EC2 and E lastic Beanstalk . 
   
   Evaluation Criteria  
 
Criteria  Marks  
Application deployed successfully over EC2 and is up and running  4 
Application deployed successfully over Elastic Beanstalk and is up and running  4 
Report with screenshots and steps  2 
 